AWS Lambda is the compute part of a serverless application.
When we say a lambda, this is basically the same as saying a function.
In fact, services like Lambda are often called Functions as a Service.
Lambda is the name of the AWS service that provides Functions as a Service.
When architecting a serverless application,
I often try to plan out my functions beforehand.
There are two ways to approach this.
One is to try to push all of your computing code into a single lambda,
something like a monolith.
A lot of times, this is how you would build a normal web applications.
So, I don't think the initial thought is that wrong.
But with Lambda, functions are cheap,
and connecting different services in AWS to create your entire
application is really how things ought to be built.
So let's take a look at that approach.
I like to separate out my functions by their logical business function.
Think of it like this.
In a normal API, you have actions such as getting a thing or posting a thing.
You could have one lambda for both,
logically isolating it due to the CRUD operations on a thing.
If you do that, however,
it would mean in your lambda function you would need to have logic to
decide whether to do the getting or the posting.
You'd need to look at the event request method to
determine the client's intention.
If you push that logic up to the HTTP layer,
executing different lambdas for the GET method and the POST method,
then not only do you have the different behavior,
but you're essentially getting that logic for free due to the
way you've architected your application.
I think that's pretty cool and a very elegant solution,
and I try to architect my functions in this way.
If there's a logical distinction between one function and another,
then I try to split them into multiples.
I also approach my functions as if I was writing code,
creating modular functions when it seems right and trying to keep
the logic in each lambda function to a minimum.
There are a few more scientific methods to guide you when
your lambda functions are getting too large.
The first is package size.
Lambda has a hard limit of 50 MB on the upload size
of your lambda function package.
Unzipped, the function size limit is 250 MB.
If you find yourself hitting either of those limits,
you should either take a look at the dependencies you're uploading with your
lambda or think about breaking up your function into multiples.
Another method of analyzing lambda function scope is the execution metrics.
In the Monitoring tab of a lambda,
you'll be able to view a lot of different metrics
related to your function execution.
You can use these metrics not only to ensure everything is working correctly,
but also to determine whether you need to refactor
a function into many functions.
There's no hard and fast rule around how long your function should execute.
You'll just want to consider the user experience you're aiming for.
Let's see what these metrics look like in action.
If the tab is still up,
go to the index URL for the demo app and refresh it a few times.
This should generate enough lambda invocations for us to view metrics.
Switch back to the AWS console and the Lambda dashboard.
Select the dev‑index function and then scroll down to the Monitor tab.
And when you select it,
make sure that the Metrics tab below that is already selected.
The graphs should have some actual data in them now.
The Invocations graph shows how many invocations per 5‑minute interval.
The Duration graph is a little more relevant,
showing the min, max, and average invocation duration per 5‑minute interval.
This is where you can get a good idea what the average invocation of your
lambda function is and whether you need to split it up or not.
In the case of this index function,
it's only returning the contents of an S3 file.
So, you can see the invocation time is quite low.
I would say this response time is better than most
web applications I've seen before.
So, I'm pretty happy with it.
Now let's look at the rest of these graphs.
Next, we have an error count and success rate graph.
This lets you know how many errors your lambda is throwing,
a good metric to keep an eye on.
The Throttles graph refers to how many times a
function execution lambda was throttled.
We'll talk more about this in a later video in this module.
The IteratorAge graph is used for lambdas that
consume DynamoDB or Kinesis Streams.
It's basically a way to measure how long it took between records being put
in those streams and the time your lambda was invoked.
So it's a good measure of the speed of those streams.
Our full app isn't working yet, but once it is,
you'll be able to look in the processAction function and
see this graph populated with real data.
And that's it for the metrics in Lambda.
In the next video, we're going to talk about security and stability for your lambda functions.